BWDSMobile
==========


# General Background

Mobile Platform for BWDS Activities - Currently experimental platform for data interaction with open data services (initially spatially constrained to the sheffield city region).

A particular aspect of "Openness" is it's bidirectional nature - Quite often in open data circles we seem to be talking about the transparency
of large external organisations. Yet it could be argued that openness is much widwer - From the open ability for citizens to correct and enrich
information held by others which relates to them or their activities (See https://github.com/ianibo/OpenLocalInformationDirectory) through to the
ability to openly share and control data generated by the person.

This repository contains an application being developed under the umbrellla of the Better With Data Society / Open data sheffield projects. It's
investigating two primary areas: 

1. The useful delivery of personalised open data to a user device - For example, a reasonably simple "Whats happening near
me tonight that is educational and good for 5 year olds", through to "Please monitor pollution levels and warn me at X% since thats where I become unwell".
2. Looking at ways end users can contribute useful data whilst remaining in control. Initially, the specific question being asked here is - Is there a way to allow/encourage users to share their spatial data which is useful for a variety of civic activities. Specifically [initially], footfall and transport monitoring. We would like to be able to monitor the flow of people around the city and cross reference that data with traffic volumes, pollution, public transport infrastructure, etc. It's been suggested that we encourage mobile companies to give us this data, but it seems like the "Right" thing to do is to put users entirely in control of this aspect of data collection. We would like to work with groups like ORG Sheffield to develop a framework for explaining to users what will be collected, for expressing the rights and conditions attached to that data, and controlling exemptions and exceptions to the reporting. Our hope is that because of the useful features presented in (1) and the open explanation of what we're doing, users will switch on (And configure) this data collection feature, thus allowing us to model, in real time, movements about the city (Sheffield initially, but any city in reality).


# Tech background

Apache Cordova app, initially created with

### as root

apt-get install npm
ln -s /usr/bin/nodejs /usr/bin/node
# - Used to do - npm install -g cordova - switched to
npm install -g phonegap

### as user

# Old:: cordova create MobileCitizen org.opensheffield.MobileCitizen
phonegap create MobileCitizen org.opensheffield.MobileCitizen
cd MobileCitizen


### WIP


https://build.phonegap.com/apps/1020957/builds


https://github.com/Red-Folder/bgs-core/wiki/Using-the-MyService-Sample

### Currently experimenting with background modes

cordova plugin add de.appplant.cordova.plugin.background-mode
cordova platform add ios
cordova platform add android
https://github.com/Red-Folder/bgs-core/wiki
cordova plugin add https://github.com/Red-Folder/bgs-sample.git


To Run locally::

cordova run
